Pattern Name and Classification
Factory Method, Creational Pattern

Intent
The Factory Method pattern defines an interface for creating objects, but lets subclasses decide which class to instantiate. Factory Method lets a class defer instantiation to subclasses.

Also Known As
Virtual Constructor

Motivation
Consider an application framework for creating documents. We know that documents can be of many types: text documents, spreadsheets, images, and so on. We also know that documents have a common set of operations, such as open, close, save, and so on. Our framework should be customizable for different document types, so it should provide a way to create documents of various types.

Applicability
Use the Factory Method pattern when:

A class can't anticipate the class of objects it must create.
A class wants its subclasses to specify the objects it creates.
Classes delegate responsibility to one of several helper subclasses, and you want to localize the knowledge of which helper subclass is the delegate.
Structure
The Creator class declares the factory method, which returns an object of the Product class. The Creator may also define a default implementation of the factory method that returns a default ConcreteProduct object. The ConcreteCreator subclass overrides the factory method to return an instance of a ConcreteProduct.

Participants

Creator: The abstract class that declares the factory method that returns Product objects.
ConcreteCreator: The subclass that implements the factory method to create a ConcreteProduct object.
Product: The abstract class that defines the interface for the objects that the factory method creates.
ConcreteProduct: The class that implements the Product interface.
Collaborations

Creator relies on its subclasses to define the factory method so that it returns an instance of the appropriate ConcreteProduct.
Consequences

Factory Method eliminates the need to bind application-specific classes into the code that uses them.
Factory Method provides hooks for subclasses to use.
Connecting parallel class hierarchies is difficult.
Implementation

Defining a default implementation for Creator's factory method can provide a way for the class to instantiate objects, even if the user does not provide a subclass.
A template method (see Template Method pattern) defines the steps of an algorithm that involve creating objects. A Factory Method can be used in the template method's implementation to create the objects.